[MUSIC PLAYING]
RICK LEVINE: A troubled
youth went into confession
and began by telling the
priest, before we get started,
I should tell you, I
don't believe in God.
The priest responded,
oh, it's OK,
I don't believe in
God either, which,
of course, upset the kid.
And it was not what
he expected to hear.
So he said, what do you mean
you don't believe in God?
And the priest responded,
I don't believe in the god
that you don't believe in.
By the same token,
I'm often confronted
with people who say they
don't believe in astrology.
And my response
is, I don't either.
Because chances are if you
don't believe in astrology then
I don't believe in the astrology
that you don't believe in.
What is astrology?
It comes from the
words astro logos.
Logos, as in the beginning of
the Bible, "In the beginning,
there was logos," which was
poorly translated into "Word."
Logos is not just
speaking of a word.
Logos is the synthesis
of idea end word.
In a way, it's the
logic of the universe.
And astro logos is the synthesis
of metaphysics and physics.
It's how the meta
physical becomes physical.
Astrology, simply stated,
is a study in correlation
that planetary patterns have
causal relationships to events
here on earth.
As the ancients said,
"As above, so is below.
The within is like the
without of things."
Astrology claims that
we as living organisms
on planet Earth are
affected by and part
of a larger cosmic fabric.
We can see that in the
framework of our lives
if we look at it accordingly.
For example, we move through
the seasons astro logically.
The earth moves around the
sun according to a logos,
according to a
logic of astrology.
In a way, it has been said, that
astronomi, nomi naming, astro
naming, is about
naming of things
up there, the giving of the
names and definitions of stars
and various celestial objects.
Astrology, however, is about
the meaning that is attached
to those very same objects.
It's been said that
astronomy is a glove
and astrology is the living
hand inside the glove.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
RICK LEVINE: From a
scientific point of view,
it's all happening
pretty darn fast.
Just a few generations
ago, we lived in a world
where things were things,
what you saw is what you got.
Newton's world consisted of
gravity that made objects
collide, pulled flying
objects toward each other.
It was the law of how things
moved in the real world.
But as we developed technology
to expand our perceptions,
we began to develop tools that
allowed us to see infra, lower
than, and ultra, higher
than, frequencies that we
could previously perceive.
It was Buckminster
Fuller who said
that 99% of all science
in the 20th century
was happening in areas
of universe that were
invisible to our five senses.
Does that make it less real?
Telescopes gave way
to radio telescopes
as our sensory perceptions
were moved into other bands
of electromagnetic frequency.
Microscopes gave way to electron
scanning microscopes that
allowed us to see objects
or things that were so
tiny that if we looked
at them with optics,
the size of a photon
would hit them
and bounce off it
and, therefore, change
the course of its action.
In a way, our journey into
the subatomic realm that
began in the late 19th
century changed everything,
because scientists discovered
that these subatomic particles
were not particles.
They looked like particles
when they were measured,
but they travelled, they
propagated, like waves.
And so scientists came up with
a bizarre series of theories
that we lumped together
and call quantum
theory or quantum
mechanics, that include
theories of indeterminacy.
The more we know about where
an electron is the less
we know about where it's going.
The more we know about
something's mass the less
we know about its trajectory.
We can't know both.
We can know electron
as particle or as wave.
The more we know about
it as particle the less
we know about it as wave.
Quantum physics, according
to its inventor, Niels Bohr,
is not stranger than we think.
It's stranger than we can think.
Quantum theory has changed
everything, because what was
a mechanical, external
universe, has now
become a web of intelligence.
In this environment,
astrology makes sense.
In this environment of
communication of information
that is not just
about seeing things,
all of a sudden
astrology, again, fits
into the scientific paradigm.
You see, our sense
organs perceive
everything as vibration.
If we hear something,
we're hearing frequencies.
When we hear a note
like A below middle C,
we're hearing 440
cycles per second.
An octave higher, is
twice that frequency,
or 880 cycles per second.
When we see something like the
color red, or the color green,
we're seeing a
particular frequency
of electromagnetic radiation.
And it turns out that
the visible spectrum
is a very narrow
slit in a very large,
perhaps infinitely large
band, of frequency vibration.
What we see as visible
light, Newton showed came
from invisible white light.
And through a prism, we
saw that in visible light
become red, orange, yellow,
blue, green, indigo, violet.
However, we've now
learned that higher
frequency than
violet, ultraviolet,
can be seen by some animals.
Bees, for example, with their
eyes, can see ultraviolet.
Snakes, with their eyes
and some other reptiles,
can see infra to
red, or infrared.
They see heat.
We feel infrared is heat.
But in fact, lower
frequency than infrared
takes us through a band of
waves that include radio wave,
short waves, that include
power wave distribution, 60
cycles per second that come
through our power outlets
in this country, or 50
cycles a second in Europe.
Higher frequency than
violet, ultraviolet,
includes waves that are so fast
that go up to gamma radiation,
that are so high frequency that
they pass right through earth
without even noticing that
there's something solid there.
It's my contention
that planet waves
are not separate from the
electromagnetic spectrum.
Science has become real
good at instrumenting
electromagnetic
radiation, but only
in high enough
frequencies where they
can get repetitive signals.
You see the problem with
instrumenting perception
of a Saturn wave, is
that instead of happening
in gigahertz, or
megahertz, or kilohertz,
it's happening only
three cycles per century.
So how do we get a
device that will tell us,
that can hear a Saturn
wave if we only get one
beat every 29 and 1/2 years.
It becomes an interesting
dilemma from a scientific point
of view.
And yet, if you look at
planets we see up there,
we see objects in space.
We see blocks of
rock, mass, lumps.
But our planet's particles,
or our planet's waves,
is light a particle
or is light a wave?
At the microcosm,
quantum physics
has us believing that
microscopic subatomic
particles, are both at
once particles and waves.
It's the particle-wave duality.
At the macroscopic level,
planets, in their own
the macro quantum universe,
are both particles and wave.
We look up there and we
see Saturn in the night sky
or we see the moon
in the night sky.
But the fact is that
the moon is also a wave.
It's a wave of 13 beats
or 13 cycles per year.
And that 13 cycles
per year is not
any different than a cycle of
100s or hundreds of thousands
of cycles per second.
The differences is that we can't
hear it and we can't see it.
We can only watch
it unfold in time.
And now we come full circle.
Because astrology is the
study of these waves.
It's the study of planet
waves introducing,
not just a three-dimensional
reality of the real world
as we see it, but it
introduces a fourth dimension.
And that fourth
dimension is time.
And of course, Einstein's
famous equation,
e equals m c squared, shows
clearly that mass and light are
tied up as one, that
mass becomes light,
becomes mass, becomes
light, in an endless dance.
And in fact, it is through
time, but time is tied up
to the speed of
light, because as we
approach the speed of light,
time becomes infinitely slow.
Time stops at the
speed of light.
And so here there becomes
this kind of paradox of time
and space all being mixed in.
And we look at astrology as
a way of understanding how
what we perceive in
this moment, as now,
is actually just one
piece of an ongoing,
unfolding of planetary cycles.
And we can actually
use the mapping
techniques of
astrology, which we
astrologers call a horoscope.
Just like a telescope allows
us to scope, to see, tele,
far away, a microscope
allows us to scope,
to see, something micro, tiny.
A horoscope allows
us to see the hour.
The word horo is
just Greek for hour.
So that astrologers
have a technology that
allow us to unfold the
understanding of this moment
with respect to a larger
perception of time,
whether we do it
in an individual's
life, an individual who is
born, gets sick, gets healthy,
becomes of age, has a
girlfriend or a boyfriend,
suffers loss of love, suffers
the death of a parent,
has a great job, has
their own family,
becomes married, has
a family, grows older,
and all these events seem
to correlate in our lives
to this same invisible
hands on these cosmic clocks
that we astrologers observe
by watching the planets go
around and around and around.
As an astrologer, I
am a pattern seeker.
I look for correlations
between larger
rhythms and smaller patterns.
I look for correlations between
events up there and events down
here.
And I find them.
Matter of fact, many
astrologers throughout the ages
have found these
very same patterns.
Astrologers have been employed
by kings and queens and popes
and religions throughout
all humanity in order
to get a sense of
what's going on,
even Christianity, which says in
the Lord's Prayer, "It is done
on earth as it is in heaven,"
is simply reflecting that fact
that there is a
connection between events
down here and events up there.
When I look at the planets, I
don't see planets with names,
I see a rich
mythology of symbol.
I see symbols that
have meaning that have
been attached to them by
humans in many cultures
throughout time.
Interestingly, the symbols take
on similar meanings in cultures
that are very far
apart, that had
no apparent communication
with each other from times
distant past.
For example, in Sanskrit,
the ancient Vedic astrologers
called Jupiter,
Guru, the teacher.
In the west, the Roman or
Latin word is Jupiter or Jove,
for the Greek word, Zeus.
All of these images,
however, carry with them
a picture of a
beneficence, of greatness,
of largesse, of teaching,
of ideas, of opinions.
The symbolism is consistent
throughout time and
throughout different cultures.
Every planet has a mythology
and symbolism attached to it.
For example, Mars
is the god of war.
We astrologers look to the
planet Mars and its rhythms
to understand how we may
defend our territory,
or how we egress, or how our ego
takes on individual situations.
We watch Mars heat up,
as the planet heats
up in various phases of war.
We look at the rhythms of
planets relating to each other,
the sun, the moon, Mercury,
Venus, Mars, Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto.
To an astrologer, these are
hands on a cosmic clock.
We look at the clock on
the wall and when the two
hands are in the same place
we know that's the beginning
of an hour.
When two planets are
in the same place
that's the beginning
of their cycle.
For example, when the sun
and the moon are lined up,
this is a new moon.
And it happens once a
moonth, or once a month,
because our calendar
is astro logical.
Every planetary pair has
a rhythm of new moon,
like the beginning of an hour
on the clock, or full moon,
like half past the hour.
This rhythm is repeated
on a monthly basis
by the solunar angle or
by the solunar rhythm.
The sun and the moon
create a measurement
in time that is the month.
But we on earth
look at patterns.
And we divide them in
half and in half again.
This is how we measure things.
So we divide a month in
half and we get a fortnight.
Although that's not
a measurement in use
much now, at one time
it was as important
a measurement as a month.
We divide a fortnight in
half and we get a week.
So our calendar is astrological.
When people say, do you
believe in astrology?
I tell them, I don't
believe in astrology
anymore than I would believe
in chemistry or mathematics.
It's something to know about.
It's a tool to use when it
can be applied sensibly.
Every planetary pair, like
the two hands on a clock,
like the hour hand
and the minute hand,
have a cycle all repetition
where they come together,
like a new moon, and when
they oppose, like half past
the hour, like a full moon.
We can look at
these slower rhythms
and we can see the relationship
between these planetary cycles
and history.
Astrology doesn't only
affect individual humans
on the planet.
It doesn't only affect
how I live my life.
It doesn't only influence my
rise and fall as a human being.
It doesn't only affect
the times in my life
when things seem to work easier,
as opposed to times in my life
when things seem to
just be more difficult.
We go through
phases in our life.
We all do.
And these phases
seem to correlate
with these movements of the sun,
moon, and the various planets.
But so does the rise and
fall of civilizations.
Civilizations, just
like individual humans,
seem to be born in a time, live
out a life, have a pattern,
have different characteristics,
and go through their process
of old age and decay.
And we can follow
these rhythms just
like we follow the patterns in
an individual person's life.
We can take, for example,
a planetary pair.
Let's start off with Saturn.
Saturn is an interesting
planet to begin with.
Because it was the
farthest planet
from the sun to the ancients.
Now they didn't know that it was
the farthest planet to the Sun,
what they knew about Saturn
was that it had the slowest
movement of all the planets.
Of all the things that moved
around in the sky at night,
Saturn's movement
was the slowest.
Out past Saturn,
slower than Saturn,
there was nothing but stillness.
The stars themselves
did not appear to move.
In fact, the word "planet" is
just a Greek word for, star
that moves, or wandering star.
Saturn to the ancients
was the end of the road.
It was as far as
movement could take us.
Saturn is Latin for
Cronus, which is Greek.
Cronus, chronometer,
chronic, time.
Saturn is father time.
Saturn is, what you get,
is what you deserve.
In fact, Saturn is karma.
Karma is Newton's third
law, to every action there's
an opposite and equal reaction.
It's very simply a planet
of cause and effect,
but it's long term
cause and effect.
And so that as we
live our life, as we
get toward the end
of the life, Saturn
becomes the judgment of whether
our life was worthy or not.
Interestingly enough,
when the Christians
got a hold of the word Saturn,
it etymologically became Satan.
And Satan is Saturn but
with a negative spin.
Because if we're born
of original sin then
we also, when we die,
we find that we've
made the deal with the
devil with Satan or Saturn,
and it's not a pretty picture.
In astrology, however,
Saturn does not
carry this negative judgment.
But it does carry a judgment.
And when Saturn
moving through the sky
aligns with a planet in our
own individual birth chart,
where a planet was on the
day, time that we were born,
when Saturn aligns with the
planet on my chart, I feel it.
I know it.
I go through changes,
so does everyone.
In fact, I've been seeing
clients for close to 30 years
and have tens of thousands
of cases of people whose
individual lives have responded
to the movement of the planets,
and Saturn is perhaps
the most obvious.
Things have changed.
And we now have moved
from an age of things,
an age of
three-dimensional reality,
into a different realm,
into a realm of imagination.
And in a little bit we'll talk
about why that has happened
and the astrological
ramifications
of this great change.
But I want to come
back to Saturn.
Because Saturn is about things.
Saturn is about real world.
It's about what you
see is what you get.
It's about gravity.
It's about those things
which restrain us and hold
us back and give
us the structure
within which to work and live.
One of the structures that
we work in and live in
is the structure of
the nation state,
or religious structures, the
structures of laws of the land.
If we take a look
at Saturn as one
of these hands on the clock,
Saturn goes around once
every 29, let's say 30 years.
It's a rounded number, but
it's really 29 and 1/2 years.
We can take Saturn
and map it's 30
year cycle against a
cycle of another planet,
let's say Pluto.
Pluto is the slowest moving
planet that we know of today.
Pluto is the planet
that takes the longest
to make one complete journey
or revolution around the Sun.
It takes Pluto nearly
250 years to make
one journey around the sun.
In that same time,
Saturn has made
a little over nine
journeys, because it takes
Saturn closer to 30 years.
What this means is that in
one Pluto trip around the sun,
Saturn will line up
with Pluto nine times,
approximately every 33 years.
Because Saturn goes
around once in 30 years
so then it catches up to Pluto,
Saturn goes around in 30 years
and it catches up
to Pluto again.
And so we have this Pluto Saturn
cycle, just like the high noon
position of the two hands
on our clock straight up,
we have Saturn and
Pluto aligning in their,
like their new moon position.
We have Saturn and Pluto
aligning once every 33 years.
We can look at
this cycle, and we
can look at the
cycle with respect
to the Saturn Pluto alignment
every 33 years, and then
their opposition, that's
the half past the hour,
the halfway point in
the cycle, just as a way
of looking at a cycle.
A cycle is a circle.
A cycle is like the
cycle of a tide.
High tide.
Low tide.
12:00, 12:30, 1:00, 1:30.
High tide.
Low tide.
New moon.
Full moon.
Saturn Pluto conjunction.
Saturn Pluto opposition.
If we look back throughout
history at the Saturn Pluto
cycle and mark down the years
in which Saturn Pluto are
in their high noon position,
or they're half past the hour
position, in other words,
when they're aligned
either on the same side of
earth or on opposite sides
of the Earth, we
can see the fabric
of the unfolding of the
clashes that go on and on
and on through civilization.
There's no limit to
how deeply we could dig
into this particular rhythm.
But let's just talk
about Rome for a moment.
Because Rome, the imperial city,
did not have a foreign invasion
for 1,100 years.
In 410 AD, Visigoths
came and sacked,
burned Rome within a
period of about a week.
For 1,100 years no foreigner
had set foot into the city,
and in a week it was all over.
That was within one year of
a Saturn Pluto alignment.
If we look back to 379, that was
the previous alignment and that
was the year the Visigoths
actually arose, put themselves
on the map, to, at the time of
the following new moon cycle,
at the time of the
next alignment, that
was when they took over Rome.
We see this kind of repetition
of historical patterns
repeating themselves
over and over again.
When we learned
history in school,
we learned history
using a timeline.
We put the dates of all the
historical events onto a line.
And we labeled them.
And we looked at the
unfolding of history
bringing it right up to now.
But as an astrologer, we look
at the hands of the clocks
going around and
around and around.
We look at the
planets moving around
in their repetitive cycles,
and we see time not as a line,
but as a continual interplay of
waves, cycles, within cycles,
within cycles.
So let's look at history
through the lens of astrology,
through the lens of this
Saturn Pluto alignment, which
happens every 16 years or so.
It's in effect for about
a year when they align
on one side of the
Earth, or with Earth
in the middle on both sides,
one on each side of the Earth.
We can look, for example,
at little events that
don't make much sense
unless we look at them
in a huge historical context.
Or we can look at large events
that by themselves stand out
as a tremendous ripple
into the history
of our culture or our planet.
For example, at a Saturn
Pluto alignment in the year
532, Justinian, who was
trying to recreate Rome.
Remember Rome had fallen
to the Visigoths in 410 AD.
Now a century later,
Justinian trying
to recreate the
dominion of Rome,
put down a tax revolution.
And in one afternoon
his imperial troops
swept into in an arena
in Constantinople
and killed 30,000
people in one afternoon.
Now we look at it at
a cataclysmic event
like the bombing of the World
Trade tower, the September
11, 2001, when the United
States was attacked
by a group of terrorists
using our own technology,
using US technology, against
this country in a demonstration
that has somehow pulled
the rug of safety
out from under many of
the people in our country.
I'm going to create by using
the Saturn Pluto rhythm a wider
perspective on this event, that
shouldn't take anything away
from the importance
of this event,
but instead frame it as part
of an ongoing continual brush
fire.
And you say, brush fire?
Well, two buildings
were destroyed
and several thousand people.
Well, this isn't a
comparative issue.
We're not saying that this was
more or less or better than
or worse than, but
remember in 532 AD,
30,000 people were killed in one
afternoon at this same cycle.
But there are other
events that feed
into this clash, this clash
between nation states,
between religious
points of view,
between metaphysical
perceptions of the universe.
In 629, for example, under
a Saturn Pluto alignment,
Mohammed walked into
mecca and without firing
a shot took over the city and
declared the state of Islam.
Islam was declared a nation
state, or a city-state
at a Saturn Pluto alignment.
A century later in 711,
Islam invaded Europe,
actually the Moors came
over the Iberian Peninsula
and took over Spain.
This was a major
historical event.
And they were there
for five centuries.
And it was in 1212, nearly
500 years later, in 1212,
that within a one
year period of time,
Catholic Spain, in
a series of battles,
kicked the Arabs out of
Spain and back into Africa.
And sure enough in 1212 there
was a Saturn Pluto alignment.
It's like there's a cellular
memory in history somehow
that keeps these cycles
alive, even if it's
over periods of centuries.
Whereas we look
at astrology often
from the period
of a human being,
and we can see the patterns
in an individual life.
We are removing ourselves
and looking at these patterns
repeating throughout history.
But it's not just these events.
I mean we can look
at in the year 800,
for example, Charlemagne, was
declared emperor by the pope.
And this ties to a
sequence of Saturn Pluto
alignments that also
tied to the year
that Augustine arrived
in England to convert
the Saxons to Christianity.
It also corresponds
to Charlemagne
defeating the Saxons.
And again, we see
these repetitive issues
coming up over and over
again at each alignment
of the Saturn Pluto.
There's not a major historical
event at every alignment
of Saturn and Pluto.
Sometimes, it seems to lay
dormant for one or two cycles
and then all of a sudden like
clockwork on the next cycle
something will happen.
For example, other
major historical events
that correspond within a year
of the Saturn Pluto alignment,
include the Norman
invasion of England, 1066,
which was the year
that determined
England would be part
of Europe, rather
than part of Scandinavia.
This was very important for
world history as we know it.
In 1098 there was a
Saturn Pluto alignment.
And in 1099 Jerusalem was
reclaimed by the Christians
after Arab control.
This again, was very
important if we look at this
in an ongoing
history, especially
in light of the events
of September 11, 2001.
We see this ongoing clash
between Christianity,
Islam, Judaism, Hinduism.
And all of these
religious clashes
they keep kind of coming up
again and again and again.
Remember we had
Islam founded in 629.
We had Islam conquering
Catholic Spain in 711.
We had Catholic Spain
reclaiming dominance in 1212.
We have, for example, in 1518,
within a year of Martin Luther
announcing and posting
the 95 Theses, which began
the Protestant Reformation.
This was a very big one.
We have in 1212 an alignment
of Saturn Pluto, which
corresponded with the children's
crusade, in which 50,000
children were
killed in an attempt
to recapture the Holy Land
again for Christianity
from Islam or from the Arabs.
In 1534, England separated
from the Catholic church,
Saturn Pluto alignment.
In 1617, we had the beginning
of the 30 Years' War.
And 1648 was the end
Both 1617 and 1648 were
Saturn Pluto alignments.
And what was that war about?
It was a war between
Protestantism and Catholicism.
Again, we have the same event
that keeps coming back and back
and back and back again.
We even look more
recently at the Saturn
Pluto alignment in 1786.
Well it was 1787
that the American
Constitution was drafted.
So we see the correspondence
in major political events
like that, bringing the Saturn
Pluto alignment closer to home,
closer to the 21st
century, where we now live.
Let's take a look at some
of the recent alignments.
Because there's a
very interesting theme
or several themes that develop.
1834, Saturn Pluto alignment.
1834 was a big year
on several counts.
Number one, it was the year
that England outlawed slavery
throughout the
British Commonwealth,
1834 slavery abolished in
the British Commonwealth.
1834 though was also
a big year for Spain.
It was not a good
year for Spain.
And we see here a continual
theme of colonial domination
and then the kicking off
of colonial domination.
1834 was the year that Simon
Bolivar defeated the Spaniards
in what was then
called New Granada,
and is now Colombia, Ecuador,
Guatemala, et cetera.
1834, Spain lost control
in South America.
1834, the end of slavery
in the British Empire.
At the next
alignment in 1850, we
have the beginning of the
slavery debate in the United
States of America that
culminated at the next Saturn
Pluto alignment in
1866, when the 13th
Amendment was passed slavery
was outlawed in this country.
And we have this
ongoing theme now.
That again, takes
from 1834 to 1866,
and there's three
Saturn Pluto alignments
that define the definitive
points in this cycle
of the ending of
slavery, not only
of in England but in the
United States of America too.
In 1883, England was
involved in military action
to create the Suez Canal,
to protect the Suez Canal.
So there was military action
between the west, England,
in the Middle East.
Also interestingly,
within a year in 1834,
a group of Europeans met in
Europe to carve up Africa
under European domination.
At the following
alignment in 1898,
again, another bad
year for Spain.
Because 1898 was the
Spanish American War
in which the United
States booted Spain out
of the Philippines
and out of Cuba.
But beyond that, 1898 had
another interesting event.
And here we have an
important theme that comes up
and that is that the most
obvious event that happens
isn't always the most important.
And what also
happened in 1898, was
it was the first meeting and
the creation of the World
Zionist Organization.
At the following alignment
of Saturn and Pluto in 1914,
we have another very large
sequence of events, the biggest
being World War I, the
Great War, the war in which
hundreds of thousands
of people just were
marched into front lines
and met bullets and bombs
and were fought.
And the lines barely
moved, hundreds
of yards over the
course of years,
there was just a
matter of death.
Also, during the
alignment of 1914,
we saw England sending
representatives
to the Arab countries requesting
their support militaristic
against the Ottoman
Empire and to fight
on the side of England.
England's promise was that
if you fight on our side,
we will guarantee you freedom
from the Turks, freedom
from the Ottoman
Empire after the war.
And in fact that's
why after the war,
countries like Iraq,
Iran, Syria, were created,
Lebanon, with countries
like England and France
protecting them from the Turks.
But of course, the Arabs looked
at that as colonial domination
also and England met
its match in Iraq.
They packed up and went
home as we know and so on.
But the point here is
that the World Zionist
Organization was founded in 1898
under a Saturn Pluto alignment.
Under 1914, England
tied itself into this
by promising to defend
Arab sovereignty
or the homeland rule by Arabs.
At the following
alignment 1931, we
have the Zionists now
rising against England,
putting financial pressure
and pressure on England.
England declaring
war in Palestine,
remember it was Palestine then.
It was established
as an Arab state.
England throws up
their hands and says,
we don't know what to do.
Also in 1931, we have
Hitler coming to power.
We have Mussolini
coming to power.
We have Stalin coming to power.
We have the Chinese
being invaded by Japan.
1931, was a huge alignment
of Saturn and Pluto.
And actually, even
though World War II
doesn't fall on this
particular series,
just because of its enormity,
I don't want to leave it out,
because it falls on
the halfway mark.
World War II falls on a Saturn
Pluto square, a 90 degree
angle, and that kind of comes to
being also tied to this cycle.
I should also mention
that in 1931, India
was rebelling against England.
That was the year that Gandhi
led a march to the sea in which
the Indians took sea water,
boiled it to make salt
as a demonstration
of their freedom
because England was
requiring Indians
to purchase both
fabric, woven textiles,
and salt from England.
It was a way of creating
economic dependence.
And Ghandi's famous Salt
March or the March to the Sea,
landed him in jail
that year, 1931.
In 1947, at the next
alignment of Saturn and Pluto,
we have England
granting independence
to India and Pakistan.
We in the West think,
what a wonderful thing.
There was no war fought.
Gandhi through
peaceful resistance
led the Indians to
throw off the shackles
of colonial domination.
However, in our history, we
sometimes gloss over the fact
or we just forget that half a
million Hindus and Muslims were
killed in battle skirmishes
after the independence was
granted, after England
packed up and went home.
So it wasn't all good news.
Incidentally, in 1947, we
also have within a year
on either side of it,
we have the United
Nations being founded in 1946.
We have the United Nations
drafting a plan that says,
let's take this area called
Palestine, give half of it
to the Jews.
Remember the Zionist
movement founded in 1898,
under the same alignment.
Now we have the
United Nations saying,
let's divide this up and
give half to the Jews
and call it Israel,
give half to the Arabs
and they can keep
calling it Palestine.
But by 1948,
Palestine disappeared.
Israel was on the map.
And again, it's tied to this
same ongoing battle of who
is in control of Jerusalem.
We then jump to the
next conjunction,
or the next alignment of
Saturn and Pluto, in 1965.
This is interesting because the
Mideast has heated up again.
We have rebellion
happening in Cyprus.
We have certainly the
Israel Arab crisis now
is reached a fervor
point which culminated
in the Seven Days War in 1967.
But we also have another
interesting development
and that is the standoff
that became the Cold
War at the previous
alignment in 1947
at the end of World War II
between the United States
and its allies and the
communist countries
behind the Iron
Curtain, which went
down right around the Saturn
Pluto alignment in 1947.
In 1965, we have the
free world, the world
of capitalism, the world
of the United States
and the United States'
allies, fighting
the Soviet Union in an
area that's marked off
called Vietnam.
It's almost as if this
is the only safe way
to have a war in a time
of nuclear weapons,
so that we fight
this war in Vietnam,
which was at its height during
the alignment in the mid '60s.
Now we'll come back to the
mid '60s in a few minutes.
Because the mid
'60s were even more
astrological important than
just this regular Saturn Pluto
alignment.
The following alignment of
Saturn and Pluto is in 1982.
1982 is an interesting
year because again, we
have the Mideast
totally topsy turvy.
1982 saw Israel
invading Lebanon.
1982 saw the Soviets tied
up in an unwinnable war
in Afghanistan.
It was like their Vietnam.
1982 saw the only 20th century
war between a colonial power
in the New World, and
that was the Falkland
Island War, which
may not register
big in our historical map.
But it was a war between
England and Argentina.
And it was a war where planes
flew, bombs were dropped,
people were killed.
But 1982 has another
interesting event.
Remember I said the
most obvious thing isn't
always the most important?
Remember Ghandi's
Salt March in 1931
at the Saturn Pluto alignment?
Remember India getting
its independence in 1947
at the Saturn Pluto conjunction?
Well in 1982, at the
Saturn Pluto conjunction,
the movie Gandhi is released.
You can't make it up this good.
It's like there's
a thread that gives
times for certain expression.
And these expressions
seem to carry
patterns on and on and on.
When we look at history
through the eyes
of the planetary motion, through
these grand, divine hands
on a cosmic clock,
we begin to see
that the terrible events
of September 11, 2001,
were not isolated.
They were, in fact, part of
an ongoing skirmish border
wars between different
points of view
that have continued since
the invasion of Rome,
to the Crusades, to
the Battle of Hastings,
to the invasion of
Spain by the Arabs,
all the way up through now.
It's part of the
same ongoing battle.
In fact, the only way
that we'll get perspective
on what happened in New
York and in Washington DC
on September 11, 2001, is as
we look at this pattern unfold.
And the next Saturn Pluto
alignment is not until 2020.
And so it will take
until then for us
to be able to see what this
does to set up what happens
in 2020 and then in
subsequent alignments
between Saturn and Pluto.
But the fact is that we
can look at any two planets
and look at their symbolism
and see different rhythms
of civilization.
Saturn and Pluto
are particularly
interesting because
they align six times,
or actually three
times a century,
and then the halfway alignment.
It's almost like-- it's
almost like a musical beat,
like a Waltz, 1, 2,
3, 1, 2, 3, except.
It's 1, 2, 3 every 100 years.
1 and 2 and 3 and.
It's the Saturn
Pluto conjunction,
opposition,
conjunction, opposition,
conjunction, opposition.
And it becomes Waltz
time for civilization.
We don't dance to
it individually.
But we dance to it as
a collective humanity,
as we play out these
wars and these skirmishes
and these battles between ideas.
But the fact is that we
can look at any two planets
and look at their symbolism
and see different rhythms
of civilization.
Take the planet
Uranus, for example.
Uranus takes 84 years to
go around the sun once.
Unlike Saturn, we
were talking about
before, which takes 30 years.
Saturn is more personalized.
It's the over 30,
under 30 thing.
It's when we reach
30 years of age,
when Saturn makes one
complete turn around the sun,
we grow up.
We become mature.
We become over the hill.
We become stuck.
If we're over 30, we
look at people under 30,
and even if they're
very wonderful people,
they're still kids.
There's something
that happens around 30
about becoming of age.
Now Uranus is an 84 year cycle.
And interestingly
enough if someone
lives to be in their
mid '80s we say
they enter a second childhood.
Because we get that one complete
cycle of the planet Uranus.
Uranus is the weird plan.
It's north pole faces the sun.
The moons are in the equator.
Everything about
Uranus is weird.
It's different.
It's eccentric.
Uranus astrologically
symbolizes lightning.
It symbolizes the release
of built up energy.
It releases energy in a crash
that can be very erratic, very
upsetting, very
revolutionary, but Uranus'
job is to release
stored up energy
so that it can become freed.
Incidentally, Uranus
was discovered right
around the time of
the French Revolution
and the American Revolution, a
time of independence for man.
And often we astrologers look
at the more modern planets
and we observe that the time
in which they were discovered
seems to correlate a little
bit with their symbolism,
like Pluto being discovered
at the time of the rise
of mass fascism in the 1930s.
Neptune being discovered
around the time of the rise
of the steam engine.
Neptune the planet of expansion.
It's a gaseous planet also.
So let's come back to the planet
Uranus, which takes 84 years
to go around the sun once.
Let's compare its cycle to
Neptune, which takes 165 years
to go around the sun once.
What that means is that
when Uranus has made
one complete journey,
84 years, Neptune
is about halfway around.
So it takes two Uranus
cycles for Uranus
to catch back up to Neptune.
So Uranus and Neptune align
like the hands on our clock
at high noon, only
once every 172 years.
So this is a much rarer cycle
than the Saturn Pluto cycle
that we were talking
about earlier, which
occurs approximately
every 33 years
in alignment in conjunction.
Uranus Neptune occurs
once every 172 years.
It's occurred recently.
The last Uranus alignment
with Neptune was in 1993.
Now 1993, actually the period
of time of three or four
years around there,
from the late '80s,
all the way through
the early '90s,
was a massive
realignment of power
structures on planet Earth.
But more importantly,
Uranus Neptune
seems to affect the cycle of
art, of science, of technology.
In 1993, the World Wide Web,
give or take a couple of years,
took over the planet.
It's almost like in Marshall
McLuhan words, we flipped out.
Our internal nervous system
became an external web
as if the brain now
existed out here
and we were moving around
surfing, so to speak, inside
of this larger
consciousness that had
been created in the early '90s.
If we go back one complete
Uranus Neptune cycle,
the last time that they
conjoined was in 1821.
Now the early 1800s were
a pretty powerful time.
From a scientific or
technological point of view,
we had people like George
Omen, Michael Faraday, people
discovering playing
with learning
how to work with
electricity, theorizing
what electricity was.
What's magnetism, making motors,
and making electrical circuits.
But the big question
of that time
was how is electricity connected
to magnetism, if at all?
And at the alignment of Uranus,
the planet of electricity,
and Neptune, which most
astrologers will correspond
because of its
ruling of the oceans
Neptune the god of the oceans.
It's that sense of the field.
It's the sense of the diffusive.
Electricity has current and
it moves around according
to a particular frequency.
Magnetism, however,
is more field related.
Uranus astrologically
relates to electricity.
Neptune astrologically is
symbolized by magnetism.
In 1821, the year that Uranus,
the planet of electricity,
conjoined Neptune, the planet
of magnetism, Hans Christian
Oersted, in a lecture in
front of a group of students,
took a bar magnet and ran
it over a closed circuit
with a voltmeter on it and saw
that as he moved the magnet
it created electrical current.
And he realized that electricity
and magnetism were, in fact,
part of one singular force.
And the coined word was,
from that period of time,
electromagnetism.
Electromagnetism Uranus
Neptune alignment.
And what about
the halfway point?
The half hour, so to speak, when
Uranus and Neptune were opposed
with earth right in the middle.
This was 1906.
And in 1905, within a
year of this alignment,
we had Einstein writing and
delivering the three papers
that shook modern
physics, pulled
the rug out from under us,
destroyed the solid ground
upon which Newton had built his
physics, because in the Newton
the perception of the world,
everything was about things.
It was things of substance.
It was billiard balls having
action against each other.
Every action had an
opposite and equal reaction.
If we had enough
mathematics, we could
plot the trajectory of anything
and know where it was going.
Everything was cause and effect.
Along comes Einstein, and
gives us a theory that
intertwines time with space.
To Newton, time was an
independent variable,
space was where things happened.
Einstein said, no,
space is simply
gravitationally warped time.
Time is gravitationally
warped space.
The two of them are entwined.
In fact what we see as matter
is light that has somehow
trapped itself into
holding patterns,
tied itself up into knots.
We as crystalline structures
are in fact, light energy that
is tied gravitationally into
patterns that have holding
patterns, that, in fact,
respond to the larger
gravitational or electromagnetic
pull of the planets.
This is why astrology works.
You see, planets are
electromagnetic vibrations.
So let's come back to this
Uranus Neptune cycle, which
was aligned in 1821, opposite
in 1906, aligned again in 1993,
and we can see how it relates
to technology on some level.
Look at one other cycle.
Let's take a look at
Uranus aligning with Pluto.
Uranus aligns with Pluto
approximately every 133 years.
Uranus, a planet of
lightning sudden change.
Pluto is Latin for Hades,
which is Greek for Hell.
Pluto is the lord
of the underworld.
Pluto is everything
we don't understand.
It's the deepest powers
and desires and intensity.
The last time that Uranus
aligned with Pluto was in 1965.
If you remember earlier we
talked about 1965 as also
being a Saturn Pluto alignment.
So 1965, 66, was not only
Saturn aligned with Pluto,
but it was Saturn aligned
with Uranus and Pluto.
It was a major
alignment and anyone
who lived through
the '60s can remember
that it was a major alignment.
In fact, consciousness
on the planet
changed during that
period of time.
But interestingly enough,
there are correlations
that aren't always
the most obvious
that are sometimes
the most important.
In 1965, while Uranus
aligned with Pluto,
there was a
technological leap taken.
IBM announced it's
System 36, which
was the first
business computer that
came complete with software.
But the thing is that IBM
believed that not very
many of them would be
sold because it felt
that the main purpose
of this computer
was for publishing the
book of capitalism,
publishing digitally
the information that was
needed to sustain a business.
However, when we have
outer planet conjunctions,
outer planet alignments,
that take place
very near each
other, in time, they
create a fabric of
their own, which
is what has happened because
Uranus aligned with Pluto
in the mid '60s and then
Uranus aligned with Neptune
in the early '90s and that's
within a short enough period
of time that we can
remember, those of us
who lived through both of these,
we remember the similarity
of what happened as these
outer planets aligned
and we had amazing awareness.
We left our normal way
of thinking of things
and we learned things from
a spiritual dimension,
from a dimension of imagination,
from a dimension of technology
change, from a dimension
of music change,
et cetera, et cetera.
So let's look back
in history at a time
recently when Uranus
Pluto conjunction
was followed in a near immediate
Uranus Neptune conjunction.
The most recent example of
a Uranus Pluto conjunction
followed by Uranus
Neptune conjunction
was the Uranus Pluto
conjunction of 1455,
followed by the Uranus
Neptune conjunction a 1479.
Now anyone who is a history
student or an art history
student will recognize
that period of time
as the height of
the Renaissance,
the Florentine period
of artistic flourishing.
Interestingly enough
though, again, there's
always something that isn't
the most obvious event
that becomes quite important.
In 1455, the year that
Uranus aligned with Pluto,
a German fellow
named Gutenberg mass
produced a Bible on a
machine that he invented,
the printing press,
which he felt
would only have one purpose and
that was to print the Bible.
After all, what other
book could be worth
printing multiple copies of?
You see, until then books
were printed by scribes who
had to hand write
them, which meant
that only someone with an
enormous amount of money
could afford a book, or only
someone with an enormous amount
of money could finance the
creation of books, that
is the church financing monks
who spent their life copying
religious texts, the Bible.
So in 1455 and under the
Uranus Pluto conjunction,
Gutenberg develops a technology
that is used to print
"the book." "The book."
But during the next couple of
decades under the financing
of Cosimo Medici, under
the Florentine Renaissance,
we have translations being made
by Marsilio Ficino, the court
astrologer incidentally to the
Medici's, who translated Plato
from Greek into Latin,
translated material that
was snuck out of Constantinople
and brought into Italy,
material called the Corpus
Hermetica, the secret teachings
that came from some
indeterminate time passed,
perhaps as far back as Egypt.
This amazing material talked
about using amulets and chance
and magic for healing.
And it was filled with
astrology and all kinds of stuff
that the church was
not very happy about.
However, this
amazing material met
the new technology,
the printing press,
and it was diffused
all through Europe.
In many ways, this
fed what became
the Protestant Reformation.
Because people
began to learn that
there was more perceptions than
one perception of the Bible.
There were more ways of
looking at the universe.
Interestingly enough, if we
bring this up to modern times,
we see the IBM System
36 coming into being
under the same alignment as
Gutenberg's printing press
in 1455.
And then just a
few decades later,
we see in 1993 the
flourishing of computers,
so that everyone owned
one, everyone had
access to the World Wide Web.
And all of a sudden, it
wasn't just about capitalism.
It wasn't just about a
particular political point
of view.
Information was flowing
all around the planet.
And it was out of control
from those people who
thought they needed
to control it,
just like the printing press.
By 1479, the Uranus
Neptune conjunction
then, the church lost control
because information was being
printed on the printing press.
So again, we see the
repeating patterns of history
as we look at them
through the rising
and falling of planetary tides.
That instead of rising
and falling twice a day,
like the lunar tides,
the tide's of the ocean,
these tides rise and fall over
decades or over centuries.
And when we begin to look at
history through this filter,
we begin to appreciate
that single events
do not happen by themselves.
They always happen in a
fabric of continuity connected
to larger events in the past,
to unknown events of the future,
and that through astrology
we get a different perception
of history.
There's really no way that we
could overstate the enormity
of the paradigm shift that
we just are beginning to put
our toes into the tip of.
We talk as if it's happened.
We talk as if the
paradigm shift is here.
You hear that talk over and over
again in scientific circles,
in new age circles, in religious
circles, in spiritual circles.
But the fact of the matter is
that the enormity of the Saturn
Pluto alignment on
September 11, 2001,
coupled with its near
proximity to the Uranus Neptune
alignment in 1993,
coupled to its proximity
to the Uranus Pluto
alignment in the mid '60s,
with Saturn there also, it's
going to take years, maybe
decades, maybe even
centuries, in order
to grow into what this
particular shift is
really all about.
The fact of the
matter is that we
have already begun to change in
the universe that we live in.
We used to live in a universe
that was apparently real.
The stargate that
we've slipped through,
through the latter part of
the 20th century, in fact
has moved us into a wider realm
of electromagnetic frequencies
that are infra and ultra to our
previous sensory mechanisms.
We are very
comfortable these days
in moving about in altered
time space dimensions.
My role as an astrologer is
an age old, honored role.
And that is that my job
is that of a magician.
The Magi, the
Zoroastrian Priests,
who found their way to the birth
of Jesus, were, in fact, Magi,
wise men.
They were astrologers.
They were studying
the sky at night
to understand how
divine intervention
manifested here on Earth.
My job as an astrologer is too,
like the Magi, to do magic.
But the magic that I do, the
magic that we astrologers do,
is not the cheap stage
tricks of making lions
and tigers or cards disappear
or appear in the air.
Our magic is more subtle
and maybe more powerful.
Our magic is bending
space and time.
What we are doing by this
little astrological journey
of our individual
minds is taking a trip
into an altered state of reality
where time becomes something
different than it normally is.
We'll return to our normal
lives and go about doing
what we normally do.
However, our perception
will have been altered.
And that's the role of
the astrologer, that's
the role of astrology, is to
give us a framework, based
upon the movement
of the planets,
so that we can see the mundane
world through a different set
of eyes, that once
and for all can
help us on a path that moves
us into a new way of perceiving
things.
We have, in fact, moved
through the stargate.
We are in a different world.
But we are not arrived yet.
We, in some ways, are like
the children of Israel
wandering around in the desert
waiting for the old ways
to die off before we can
really move into whatever
it is that's next.
We may not be the ones that
actually even move there,
but our children and our
children's children will.
It's our generations,
however, that have dipped
our toes into quantum pond.
But the thing about
ripples in a quantum pond
is that we do not know the
effects that they will have.
Astrology is not a
simple cause and effect
relationship, that was the
astrology of the Newton Empire.
200 or 300 years ago,
astrologers believed in fate.
Fate is like the particle side
of the particle-wave duality.
We now know that planets
are not just particles.
They're particles and waves.
Particle, fate.
Waves, free will.
So as we dip our toes
into quantum pond
and watch these
ripples move out,
astrology, more
than anything else,
reminds us that our future
is not sealed in fate.
In fact, it's sealed
in every little action
that we take every time we
poke into that quantum pond.
Every action we
take has ripples.
And those ripples
have ramifications
that build and come back
in the future in ways
that today we do not know.
[MUSIC PLAYING]